Hello, my name is Tim Chien.
I'm an engineer on
the MapKit team here at Apple,
working on MapKit JS.
Today I'm going to talk about
several exciting new features
you can use to deliver
the best possible experience
when integrating MapKit JS
with your web application.
Since the introduction
of MapKit JS in 2018,
we have worked tirelessly
adding new features every year.
With that, MapKit JS has
become an indispensable part
of Apple's web offering,
integrated into many websites
like in our own
Find My servers on icloud.com,
and third-party websites
like DuckDuckGo,
and a property search
website in Greece.
You'll notice this website
is taking advantage
of MapKit JS's ability
to localize the map features.
We made it super easy to adopt
MapKit JS in any web application
with a simple
include and initialization.
However, we want to provide you
the flexibility
to adopt MapKit JS in the manner
that optimizes the performance
of your application.
So starting this year, we have
turned our eyes to performance
and looked at how
we could make your pages
more responsive,
faster to load,
and in a manner designed
to give you more control,
enabling you to include only
the functionalities you need
when you need them.
Today, I'm happy to introduce
three new features
that will just do that,
including a new markup
for high-performance
MapKit JS loading,
the ability to load additional
MapKit JS libraries on demand,
and finally, a new way
for an application to signal
the desired map features
to present to the user.
Now to demonstrate how these
new features can improve
your web application,
let's say you're building
an interactive treasure map
for your fellow pirates.
You have adopted the default
implementation of MapKit JS.
However, when viewing this page
over the lousy pirate ship Wi-Fi
it takes too long to load and
the user has to wait too long
for the map to appear,
making your shipmates impatient.
So to prevent a mutiny,
you can use
the new high-performance
MapKit JS loading markup.
It swaps the default
implementation
for an expanded markup with
additional properties you'll use
to tune your web app.
First, MapKit JS now offers
a new JavaScript bundle,
market.core.js, that contains
only the minimum amount of code
to get yourself started.
Next, we want to let MapKit JS
know the subset of features
we will need.
Here, we specify
just the map library,
which is the minimum feature
set to show an interactive map.
We will prevent MapKit JS
from blocking the page load
by using the async attribute
and invoke a callback specified
by data callback attribute
when it finishes loading.
Since MapKit JS no longer
blocks the page from loading,
your web app should
assert its readiness
before assessing its interfaces
for the first time.
As an example,
here is an async function
that will resolve
to the MapKit interface
when MapKit JS is ready.
As always,
MapKit JS is available
on the global window object
as soon as it has been loaded.
If the MapKit object
is undefined,
that means MapKit JS
has not been loaded yet.
Additionally, we want to check
if the initial libraries
have been loaded.
Recall that we asked
for the map library
in the markup using
the data library's attribute.
Failing either of the two
tests means the callback set
using the data callback
attribute has not been invoked.
Here we convert
a callback into a promise
for our async function
and clean up the callback
right after promise resolution.
With that, we have guaranteed
that MapKit JS
is ready to roll
when this feature returns.
Now, back to the syntax.
There are some other
useful attributes
in our high-performance markup,
including the crossorigin
attribute
that allows the browser to reuse
a single HTTP/2 connection
for all the requests going
to the MapKit JS CDN.
We would also like MapKit JS
to initialize itself
as soon as it has
the opportunity to do so.
We can achieve that
by setting an initial token
in the markup.
Piece it together and we will
make our page load even faster,
but we are not there yet.
Since we only asked
for the map library,
we would need to load the
annotations library to be able
to put our pirate ship
and treasures back on the map.
And that's where our second
optimization comes in handy.
A new method is offered
just for that MapKit download.
It loads additional libraries
asynchronously on demand.
And if any library you load
requires another,
it will be handled
automatically.
And here it is in action.
Simply call
MapKit download method
to load the annotations library.
Add a listener
for the load event,
then add your annotation
when it is called.
And of course, you can load
more than annotations.
For example, services encompass
all services APIs
like search and geocoder.
Full map loads
all the features available
on the MapKit map class.
And that includes basic map,
overlays, annotations,
and user location display.
And GeoJSON loads
the GeoJSON importer.
Now, this is a good
loading experience,
but we can do
even better than this.
This is the third feature
we are going to introduce today:
prioritized map start-up.
With the new
load priority property,
we can instruct MapKit JS
to show points of interest
sooner to give feral
pirates a better head start.
When setting the load priority,
you should cater to the best
experience that your user needs.
There are three load priority
options available.
Points of Interest
instructs MapKit map
to show the map labels
and points of interest sooner,
even before your annotations.
Land Cover, on the other hand,
will service just the land
cover, roads, and borders.
As these options will interfere
with some map behaviors
during start-up,
like rotation or precise
map region of the viewport,
you can turn off
load priority altogether
by setting it to none.
And here is what it
looks like in action.
Simply use load priority
in the map constructor option
to specify the desired priority.
Here we ask MapKit map to show
the points of interest first.
Now that's an even better
loading experience.
Today, we introduced
three new features
designed to improve the map load
experience of your application.
We believe that you can
integrate MapKit JS
while ensuring that the overall
user experience
remains seamless and unimpaired.
For your existing application,
feel free to adopt these
new features gradually,
as each will bring
its own benefit.
Be sure to check out
the detailed documentation
and the Maps Server API
session shown below.
We look forward to seeing
how you take advantage
of these new features.
Thank you.